Now that we've had a look at CloudWatch through the
console and taken a look at CloudWatch logs,
let's spend a few minutes looking at CloudWatch log
encryption and user permissions.
Like most services in AWS, when we talk about access control,
we're really talking about two things.
We're talking about authentication,
which requires a set of credentials that can be used to
authenticate requests to CloudWatch, and authorization,
which involves assigning sets of permissions that are
required to access CloudWatch resources.
Traditional AWS tools are used to provide CloudWatch authentication.
This includes the root user who has full control to
CloudWatch and all its content,
granting access to individual IAM users or groups by assigning the appropriate
permissions and IAM roles with the appropriate permissions.
An example of using an IAM role to grant access to CloudWatch
would be roles assigned to Lambda functions.
If we expect a Lambda function to create CloudWatch logs,
then the function will need a role with the proper permissions.
The same goes for compute like EC2. Or, indeed,
any time an AWS service needs to read and write to CloudWatch,
that service will need an appropriate role with the appropriate permissions.
In order for our user or roles to be able to perform actions in CloudWatch,
they need to be authorized to perform those actions.
This authorization comes in the form of policies that are used to
grant access to different actions in CloudWatch.
These policies can be attached to users,
groups, or roles, and they come in different types.
Two ways that we can categorize policies are AWS managed
policies and custom managed policies.
Amazon CloudWatch has several different AWS managed policies to
help us get started with CloudWatch authorization.
For CloudWatch logs, for example,
we have a policy called CloudWatchLogsFullAccess.
Any user group or role that has this policy has full control of CloudWatch logs.
We also have a read‑only policy called CloudWatchLogsReadOnlyAccess.
Holders of this policy will be allowed to read logs, but do nothing else.
Now in AWS, these policies are written in JSON.
So here's an example of a policy.
This policy includes an API version number,
and typically that is 2012‑10‑17, and then one or more statements.
This policy has a single statement.
At a minimum, statements are made up of actions, effects, and resources.
So the action section lists all the actions that this policy allows,
and typically each action maps to an API.
In this example,
this action identifies all APIs that are part of the log's namespace.
Next we have effect.
The effect will either be allow or deny.
Here the effect is allow,
so allowing all the actions mentioned in the action section.
And finally, we have the resource section.
Here we've got a star, which indicates all resources,
but you could be quite specific in this section.
So this statement allows full control of all logs.
In this example, we have the API version number and, again, a single statement.
This time, we provided a specific list of actions.
These actions are required for read‑only access to CloudWatch logs.
This statement includes allow and, again, all resources.
So if you were given this policy, you would be allowed read access to all logs.
What does this next policy do?
Take a minute, pause the video if you need,
and see if you can write down what this policy does.
So like our previous two policies,
we have the API version and a single statement.
We then have an action section that lists the actions
that will either be allowed or denied.
And in this example, we are allowing access.
So it's the resource section here that's very different.
This time, we're identifying a specific resource,
namely a log group called GlobomanticsApp.
So the holder of this policy will be able to write to this log group,
read from this load group, but no other log groups.
So by using policies,
either AWS managed policies given to us by AWS or custom
managed policies like this that we create,
we can be very granular in the level of access we give to CloudWatch
and not just to CloudWatch logs as in these examples,
but any of the CloudWatch features.
Most organizations that I work with need this granularity of access,
different groups of people and services that require different levels
of access to different resources in CloudWatch.
So for Globomantics, for example, they may need one set of users to create,
view,
and delete CloudWatch logs and one set of users that can only read
logs created by their customer‑faced application.
At the same time, they may be running Lambda functions,
and a different set of users need to able to analyze those logs.
So maybe take a minute, think about your organization,
think about the different teams of people in your
organization and what levels of access they would need to
the different CloudWatch services.
One other aspect of CloudWatch logs to consider is encryption.
Now by default, all log groups, so by extension,
the log streams, log events are encrypted at rest.
The conversation you should have then is around the encryption keys.
Do you want to use encryption keys controlled by AWS,
or do you want to provide your own keying information?
It's also good to know of the encryption of data in transit.
So information going from your AWS deployed resources,
your AWS services,
even your virtual machines on premise that are logging to CloudWatch,
all of that data is encrypted end to end.
This time CloudWatch controls those keys.
So a pretty secure environment for us to be working in. Let's take a couple minutes then to look at access control in CloudWatch.